chore(#976): Add all the things to onboarding (#1018)
medic/cht-docs: content/en/contribute/medic/onboarding/all-the-things.md

Reviewer: Oh it'd be nice to mention the cht academy course as a good way to understand how CHT works.

---
title: "All The Things"
linkTitle: "All The Things"
weight: 2
description: >
  Wide range of topics and resources to support the onboarding
---

This page is meant to serve as a point of conversation, with a wide range of topics to be discussed when joining Medic or starting as a contributor. Many things are not in any particular order. The goal is to convey a general “lay of the land” so someone starting can see a lot of what’s out there without having to be surprised each day as new things pop up.

## First, some general context…

### What is the CHT?
* Why the [CHT (Community Health Toolkit)]({{% ref "/why-the-cht" %}})?

> * The [CHT Core Framework]({{% ref "/core" %}}) - Web application that runs inside an Android app (as a [WebView](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/webkit/WebView))

Reviewer: As first timer, this webview link is confusing because it doesn't explain much (it's a class definition), and now we also have PWA

```suggestion
* The [CHT Core Framework]({{% ref "/core" %}}) - App that can be accessed in the [browser](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/architecture/#cht-web-application) or as [PWA](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/pwa/) or [native Android app](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/architecture/#cht-android).
```

* [Offline-First]({{% ref "/core/overview/offline-first" %}}) - for real

> * [Community](https://communityhealthtoolkit.org/) of people and organizations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Community](https://communityhealthtoolkit.org/) of people and organizations. This is where we document all the things about the CHT Framework. Bookmark it as you primary source of reference. 
```

### Teams at Medic
Meet the [Medic team](https://medic.org/team/)!
* Product
* Programs
* Research
* Internal Operations
* External Affairs

> ### Lifecycle of a [CHT Application]({{% ref "/apps" %}}) being built

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Lifecycle of a [CHT Application]({{% ref "/running-programs/#cht-lifecycle" %}}) being built
```
this page has a nice diagram

1. Programs team starts relationship with an organization
1. Service designers and app developers figure out how they want their system to work
1. App developers take latest version of the CHT and build the app for the organization
1. Android flavor deployed to get branded app onto CHW devices / deployment
1. Dashboards are set up in Klipfolio, Superset or Grafana
1. Go!
1. App developers make ongoing enhancements
1. App upgraded as new versions of CHT are available

## Now, all the things…
### People/Team

> #### Distributed things 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Distributed team 
```
Does things here means "team"?

> * Without some effort, it’s easy for things to feel lonely or isolated

Reviewer: Do you have a link about remote work as a collaborator? I think you shared it before, but I can't find it... it was about this

Author: Hmm I don't remember. Was it a Medic link or some external resource, do you remember?

> * Default to asynchronous things

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Default to asynchronous communications
```

* Respect teammate timezones (including your own!)

#### Expensify

> * Follow up to make sure things get through 

Reviewer: Maybe here explain to reach out to internal ops for guidance, like this we can add more value to this bullet

#### Funding
* Restricted - Clicktime

> * Unrestricted

Reviewer: Some thing like: "Getting our clicktime submitted on time is vital to get source the projects adequately, if necessary take extra steps to remind yourself of submitting these. If you have any question about to fill the reports properly, reach out to the finance team"

#### Travel 

> * Meetups at your own risk are fine

Reviewer: "Meetups are a great way to build relations with your team! These are usually planned weeks ahead; if you feel comfortable joining, please do!"

#### Meetings
* A few mandatory calls
* Organization-wide calls are recorded
* No recurring meetings on Fridays

> * Retros - MetroRetro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Retrospective sessions
```
What is metroRetro?

> * 2 Daily Standups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Daily Standups available in 2 timezones.
```

> * Weekly FWG meetings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Weekly Focused Working Groups meetings
```

### Process

> #### Development

Reviewer: Maybe link to [this workflow](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/code/workflow/)

Also numeration can be replaced by bullets, easier to maintain

* Basic current process:

> 1. Take ticket (GitHub issue from a board)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Take ticket (GitHub issue from your Focused Working Group's board)
```

1. Code something up on a branch

> 1. Open pull request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open pull request add the QA engineer and another developer as reviewers.
```

> 1. Move ticket to “Ready for AT (Acceptance Testing)”

Reviewer: No longer. But can be replaced "Get [quality assistance](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/medic/product-development-process/quality-assistance/) from the start"

1. Upon testing passing, merge and delete branch
1. Get QA engineers involved early in the process!

> * Releases

Reviewer: https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/contribute/code/releasing/

> 1. Backwards compatibility matters a lot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Backwards compatibility matters a lot, so CHWs can keep using the app and delivery care to their community without interruptions. 
```

1. Can feel slow at times, but we’re making a lot of progress here. See above about how Focused Groups work.
1. Quality matters a lot
* Data engineering -> software engineering
  * Workflow management 
  * Dashboards
* The main repos to look at:
  * cht-core
  * cht-conf
  * cht-android 
  * cht-sync 
  * couch2pg
  * cht-pipeline

>   * cht-sync

Reviewer: repeated

  * cht-monitoring
* Continuous Integration (CI) with GitHub Actions
* No CD, as no SaaS setup

#### GitHub 
* Tons of stuff happens here.
* Recommendation: [Set up your reminders/notifications](https://medic.slack.com/archives/C024KTGRW/p1617308776092600) 
* A few important boards: 
  * [SRE Engineering](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/38)
  * [SRE Support](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/19)
  * [Ecosystem Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/11)
  * [Allies Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/3)
  * [Care Teams Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/2)

>   * [Test Automation](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/12)

Reviewer: Infra FWG: https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/26

#### QA
* Doing a lot of automation

> * Trying to move from manual AT and release testing to fully automated
> * Trying out [quality assistance]({{% ref "quality-assistance" %}})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We moved from manual AT and release testing to fully automated
* We do [quality assistance]({{% ref "quality-assistance" %}})
```

  * Faster start-to-live 
  * Avoiding silos and shifting of responsibilities (coding and quality)

#### SRE
* Support
* Ticketing system: only GitHub
* Not on-call
* We’re offline first, so not every outage calls for immediate action/resolution

> * Engineering work - Archv3 (cht-core 4.0 version)

Reviewer: I think we dont need this last bullet, since we overcame the big stuff from transitioning from 3.x to 4.x

But we can include this https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/architecture/ in the section about CHT from top.

### Product
#### [CHT Forum](https://forum.communityhealthtoolkit.org/)
* We’re trying to keep this active
* Encourage teammates to post and answer questions there instead of slack when the public might benefit
* Expecting you to be proactive and support the team with checking forum posts and helping when questions arise

#### Partners
* Medic-hosted
* Self-hosted
* Technical partners

#### Product Development Process
* At Medic, we follow [Continuous Discovery]({{% ref "continuous-discovery-overview" %}}) as a [Product Development Process]({{% ref "product-development-process" %}})
  * Trying to follow closely with the [Continuous Discovery Habits](https://www.producttalk.org/2021/05/continuous-discovery-habits/) book by Teresa Torres
  * [Focused Working Groups]({{% ref "focused-groups" %}}) within the product team to focus on specific groups of users
    * Allies
    * Care Teams
    * Infrastructure

>     * Ecosystem

Reviewer: @andrablaj In the other PR you reviewed, I made a separate section for the Product Team. Should we keep it together here, or is it a separate file okay?  

We can polish this PR and merge it to start collaborating; it's okay if it's a list of topics for now; it's already a good start. :)

Author: I think the way you organized the page in the other PR is perfect. We can always merge the pages if we change our minds later.

---
title: "All The Things"
linkTitle: "All The Things"
weight: 2
description: >
  Wide range of topics and resources to support the onboarding
---

This page is meant to serve as a point of conversation, with a wide range of topics to be discussed when joining Medic or starting as a contributor. Many things are not in any particular order. The goal is to convey a general “lay of the land” so someone starting can see a lot of what’s out there without having to be surprised each day as new things pop up.

## First, some general context…

### What is the CHT?
* Why the [CHT (Community Health Toolkit)]({{% ref "/why-the-cht" %}})?
* The [CHT Core Framework]({{% ref "/core" %}}) - App that can be accessed in the [browser](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/architecture/#cht-web-application) or as [PWA](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/pwa/) or [native Android app](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/core/overview/architecture/#cht-android).
* [Offline-First]({{% ref "/core/overview/offline-first" %}}) - for real
* [Architecture of the CHT]({{% ref "core/overview/architecture" %}})

> * [Community](https://communityhealthtoolkit.org/) of people and organizations. This is where we document all the things about the CHT Framework. Bookmark it as you primary source of reference. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [Community](https://docs.communityhealthtoolkit.org/) of people and organizations. This is where we document all the things about the CHT Framework. Bookmark it as you primary source of reference. 
```

The text here makes me expect to go to the docs site. Was that the intention?

1. Go!
1. App developers make ongoing enhancements.
1. App upgraded as new versions of CHT are available.

### CHT Academy
* [Fantastic way](https://academy.communityhealthtoolkit.org/) to understand how certain features of the CHT work.

## Now, all the things…
### People/Team

#### Distributed team 
* Without some effort, it’s easy for things to feel lonely or isolated.
* Default to asynchronous communication.
* Respect teammate timezones (including your own!).

#### Expensify
* Reach out to Internal Operations team for guidance on how to submit expenses and get refunded. When submitting expenses, follow up to make sure things get through.  

#### Funding
* Restricted - Clicktime. Getting our ClickTime timesheets submitted on time is vital to source the projects adequately. If necessary, take extra steps to remind yourself of submitting these on a monthly basis. If you have any question about filling in the reports properly, reach out to the finance team.
* Unrestricted

#### Travel 
* Team Meetups are a great way to build relations with your team! These are usually planned weeks ahead; if you feel comfortable joining, please do!

> * Focused Working Groups team members regurarly organize in-person meetups to meet with the people they serve. It's highly recommended to join those trips to get more connected to the team and the mission! 

Reviewer 2: This feels more accurate... and is easier to spell 😉

```suggestion
* Focused Working Groups team members may sometimes organize in-person meetups to meet with the people they serve. It's highly recommended to join those trips to get more connected to the team and the mission! 
```

#### Meetings
* There a few calls where you will be required to join. We know that depending on your timezone, you might need to adjust your calendar to be able to attend and we provide great flexibility to do so. 
* Organization-wide calls are recorded.
* No meetings on Fridays, as we consider Fridays as Deep Work days! 
* Retrospective sessions

> * Daily Standups available in 2 timezones

Reviewer 2: I hadn't read this in a while and doing so now made me think we're asking people to attend both.

```suggestion
* Daily Standups available in 2 timezones (pick the one that suits you best)
```

* Weekly Focused Working Groups meetings
* Weekly 1-to-1s with your manager

### Process

#### Development
* [Current development process]({{% ref "contribute/code/workflow" %}}). Keep in mind to involve [Quality Assistance]({{% ref "contribute/medic/product-development-process/quality-assistance" %}}) from the start. 
* [Releasing]({{% ref "contribute/code/releasing" %}})
* Backwards compatibility matters a lot, so CHWs can keep using the app and delivery care to their community without interruptions. 
* It can feel slow at times, but we’re making a lot of progress here. See below about how Focused Working Groups work.
* Quality matters a lot!
* [Data Flow]({{% ref "core/overview/data-flows-for-analytics" %}})
* [Monitoring & Alerting]({{% ref "apps/guides/hosting/monitoring" %}})
* The main repositories to look at:

>   * cht-core
>   * cht-conf
>   * cht-android 
>   * cht-sync 
>   * cht-pipeline
>   * couch2pg
>   * cht-watchdog

Reviewer 2: I just figured I'd link these while in here doing the review
```suggestion
  * [cht-core](https://github.com/medic/cht-core)
  * [cht-conf](https://github.com/medic/cht-conf)
  * [cht-android](https://github.com/medic/cht-android) 
  * [cht-sync](https://github.com/medic/cht-sync) 
  * [cht-pipeline](https://github.com/medic/cht-pipeline)
  * [couch2pg](https://github.com/medic/couch2pg)
  * [cht-watchdog](https://github.com/medic/cht-watchdog)
```

* A few important boards: 
  * [SRE Engineering](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/38)
  * [SRE Support](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/19)
  * [Ecosystem Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/11)
  * [Allies Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/3)
  * [Care Teams Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/2)
  * [Infrastructure Workstream](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/26)
  * [Test Automation](https://github.com/orgs/medic/projects/134/views/12)

#### Quality Assistance
* High emphasis on automation
* We moved from manual AT (acceptance testing) and release testing to fully automated
* We leverage [quality assistance]({{% ref "quality-assistance" %}})
  * Faster start-to-live 
  * Avoiding silos and shifting of responsibilities (coding and quality).

#### SRE (Site Reliability Engineering)
* Support
* Ticketing system: only GitHub
* Not on-call
* We’re offline first, so not every outage calls for immediate action/resolution.

### Product
#### [CHT Forum](https://forum.communityhealthtoolkit.org/)

> * We’re trying to keep the Forum active

Reviewer 2: As we keep doing better and better I think this is now a fair way to word it:

```suggestion
* We keep the forum active. It's a great place to talk with people working with the CHT.
```
